Spout of a leaf,
listen out for the screams
of your relentless audience:
the applause of a waterfall
in the distance,

a hurricane looting 
a Miami shopping mall.
How careful you are 
with the rain-cradling
curve of your back.

Near your forest,
all are ready to swim
and happy to drown
in me: this lake of fire
that moats the edges. 

From my mouth,
they come to peel the flames 
and drink their slick throats
into the most silent 
of ashes.


Child, when you’re sad put on your blue shoes.
You know that Mama loves you lollipops
and Daddy still has a job to lose.

So put on a party hat. We’ll play the kazoos
loud and louder from the mountaintop.
Child, when you’re sad put on your blue shoes

and dance the polka with pink kangaroos,
dolphin choirs singing “flip-flop, flip-flop.”
Hey, Daddy still has a job to lose

don’t be afraid. Close your eyes, snooze,
because today our suns have flared and dropped.
Tomorrow when you wake, put on your blue shoes.

Eat a good breakfast. Be good in school.
Good boys go to college goody gumdrops
so someday too you’ll have a job to lose.

Waste trucks clatter by as the gray bird coos.
Flames pour forth when the faucet’s unstopped.
Child, when you’re sad put on your blue shoes.
For now, Daddy still has a job to lose.


The gradual warming trend will likely go on
And the grain belts begin to slide closer to the poles.
The Plains States will be abandoned as giant dust bowls.
Greenland and Antarctica will join the new Great Powers.
Even if we play them off against each other
For more aid, we'll still be poorer than we are now
Life will be different, good tillable land so dear
The suburbs will give way to farms, the cities
Fill up again with people too poor to own cars.
Walking to work or crowding on trollies,
We'll move down streets lined with practical nut trees,
Not elms and oaks, with vegetables crowding the front
lawns.
The tax base will be too small to support the public
buildings.
We'll have to donate hours after work each week
To rake the lawn of the Library and City Hall,
To tuckpoint the chimney of the Federal Building
If we don't want the place to fall like temples in Rome,
Don't want sheep to graze in our squares
As they grazed in the Forum for a thousand years.
With a little effort the country will go on.
So what if we've lost our high place to stronger Carthages
Whose far-flung fleets will be loaded with merchandise
Cheaper than ours. We'll be glad to watch from the beach
As the lights from Korean armadas pass
On their endless patrols around the world.
Let them have their little time in the sun,
We'll say to ourselves as we begin to sway
To the strains of our native beach band,
Ignoring the hits from the Arctic on the radio.